---
layout: tutorial
title: Query DSL explained (2)
cat: tutorials
author: Peter Karich
nick: timetabling
tutorial_desc: Bird's Eye View on the Query DSL
---

Several times per month there pop up questions regarding the query structure on the "ElasticSearch user group":http://groups.google.com/group/elasticsearch/topics.

Although there are already "good docs":/guide/reference/api/search/ explaining this in depth probably the bird view of the Query DSL is necessary to understand what is written there. An overview of the Query DSL is already available "here":/tutorials/2011/08/28/query-dsl-explained.html. 
And there were attempts to "define":http://groups.google.com/group/json-schema/browse_thread/thread/ae498ee818155d50 a "schema":https://gist.github.com/8887766ca0e7052814b0 but nevertheless I'll add my 2 cents here. 

I assume you "set up":/guide/reference/setup/installation.html your ElasticSearch instance correctly and on the local machine filled with 3 example articles described "here":/guide/reference/api/search/facets/index.html.

Now we can query ElasticSearch as it is done there. Keep in mind to use the keyword analyzer for tags!

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "query" : { "query_string" : {"query" : "T*"} },
  "facets" : {
      "tags" : { "terms" : {"field" : "tags"} }
  }
}'
</pre>

But when you now look into the query DSL docs you'll only find the "query part":/guide/reference/query-dsl/query-string-query.html

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
  "query_string" : {
    "default_field" : "content",
    "query" : "this AND that OR thus"
  }
}
</pre>

And this query part can be replaced by your favourite query. Be it a "filtered":/guide/reference/query-dsl/filtered-query.html, "term":/guide/reference/query-dsl/term-query.html, "bool":/guide/reference/query-dsl/bool-query.html or other query.

So what is the main structure of a query? Roughly it is:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 10,
  "query" : QUERY_JSON,
  FILTER_JSON,
  FACET_JSON,
  SORT_JSON
}'
</pre>

Keep in mind that the FILTER_JSON only applies to the query not to the facets. Read on how to do this. And now a short example how this nicely maps to the Java API:

<pre class="prettyprint">
SearchRequestBuilder srb = client.prepareSearch("your_index");
srb.setQuery(QueryBuilders.queryString("title:test"));
srb.addSort("tags", SortOrder.ASC);
srb.addFacet(FacetBuilders.termsFacet("tags"));
// etc -> use your IDE autocompletion function 
</pre>

If you install "my hack":https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head/pull/3 for ElasticSearch Head you can formulate the above query separation directly in your browser ie. in javascript:

<pre class="prettyprint">
q = { match_all:{} };
req = { query:q }
</pre>

A more detailed query structure is as follows – you could easily obtain all supported elements via Java API, from the "navigational elements from the official docs":/guide/reference/api/search/ or directly from "the source":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/blob/master/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/search/builder/SearchSourceBuilder.java#L576 :

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -X POST 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "query" : QUERY_JSON,
  "filter" : FILTER_JSON,
  "from": 0,
  "size": 10,
  "sort" : SORT_ARRAY,
  "highlight" : HIGHLIGHT_JSON,
  "fields" : ["tags", "title"],
  "script_fields": SCRIPT_FIELDS_JSON,
  "preference": "_local",
  "facets" : FACET_JSON,
  "search_type": "query_then_fetch",
  "timeout": -1,
  "version": true,
  "explain": true,
  "min_score": 0.5,
  "partial_fields": PARTIAL_FIELDS_JSON,
  "stats" : ["group1", "group2"]
}'
</pre>

Let us dig into a simple query with some filters and facets:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "query": {
     "filtered" : {
        "query" : { "match_all" : {} },
        "filter" : {"term" : { "tags" : "bar" }}
     }
  },
  "facets" : {
     "tags" : { "terms" : {"field" : "tags"} }
  }
}'
</pre>

You should get 2 out of the 3 articles and the filter directly applies on the facets as well. If you don't want that then put the filter part under the query:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "query" : { "match_all" : {} },
  "filter" : { "term" : { "tags" : "bar" }},
  "facets" : {
     "tags" : { "terms" : {"field" : "tags"} }
  }
}'
</pre>

And how can I only filter on the facets? You'll need facet_filter:

<pre class="prettyprint">
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/articles/_search?pretty=true' -d '
{
  "query" : { "match_all" : {} },
  "facets" : {
     "mytags" : {
        "terms" : {"field" : "tags"},
        "facet_filter" : {"term" : { "tags" : "bar"}}
     }
  }
}'
</pre>

You'll get 3 documents with filtered facets.

Hope this posts clarifies a bit and reduces your trouble. I'll update the post according to your comments/suggestions. "Let me know":http://twitter.com/timetabling if you want something explained which is Query-DSL specific for all the other questions there is the "user group":http://groups.google.com/group/elasticsearch/topics.